Dual-BEV Nav: Dual-layer BEV-based Heuristic Path Planning for Robotic Navigation in Unstructured Outdoor Environments
===

> [!NOTE]
> https://arxiv.org/pdf/2501.18351

LBPM Local BEV plannning model = local BEV perception encoder + task-driven goal decoder

## LBPM

### Local BEV Perception encoder

inputs: (i) context observation $o_{t-P:t-1}$ (ii) current observation $o_t$.

- BEV transformation on the observation
- Feature extract based on LSS method. Uses EfficientNet
- Uses LSS and BEVDet to predict discrete depth distribution for each pixel
- BEV transformation (If multiple feature -> BEV pooling using BEVFusion)

_I'm confused about what is new compared to LSS. At least until the computation of the
BEV features (see Fig. 2), it is every similar. Also (this is one of the difference compared to LSS), I
don't understand the point of the traversability features, is it to make the system
keep in mind what was traversable?

### Task-driven goal decoder

based on the ViKiNG architecture

inputs: environmental context $o_{t-P}$, current observation $o_t$, goal observation $o_\omega$.



## GBPM

Provide traversability hint and overall direction.

- Use an overhead map from satellite images
- segmentation that gradually increase as they approach impassable.

> GBPM uses trajectory data to learn traversability in the
> overhead map [...], the more easily accessible areas will
> be covered by a larger number of trajectories.

- This step uses the probability predictions as a map (not a thresholds regulated
  output). [U-net](https://github.com/milesial/Pytorch-UNet) is used to do the segmentation.

### Use GBPM with potential trajectories generated by LBPM

> First, the LBPM generates multiple potential traversable paths, providing information including temporal distance, GPS
> offsets, and waypoints from the current position to the goal. The GBPM encodes the overhead map into a global
> probability map, projecting traversable paths of LBPM onto this map.
>
> $cost = k \times score + (1-k) \times temporal\_distance$

